10 members of the security Council Gabe
I'm sorry to interrupt you but that un
Security Council session has begun let's
listen
in with rule 37 of the council's
provisional rules of procedure I invite
the representative of Israel to
participate in this meeting it is so
decided the security Council will now
begin its consideration of item two of
the agenda
members of the council have before them
documents
s202
4239 the text of the draft resolution
submitted by the United States of
America the council is ready to proceed
to the vote on the draft resolution
before
it I now give the floor to those members
of the council who wish to make
statements before the
vote I give the Flor to the
representative of the United
States thank you Mr
President colleagues for all the stories
that have been written about divisions
in this Council and there are many real
divisions I believe most of us share
many of the same
goals first and foremost we want to see
an immediate and sustained
ceasefire as part of a deal that leads
to the release of all hostages being
held by Hamas and other groups and that
will allow much more life-saving
humanitarian Aid to get into
Gaza of course we can't just want that
to happen we have to make that happen we
have to do the hard work of
diplomacy I know you've heard me say
that a lot and that's because it's the
truth
a security Council resolution means much
less if it is not actually made real on
the
ground that's why the United States
Egypt and Qatar are working around the
clock in the region to secure an
immediate and sustained ceasefire as
part of a deal that leads to the release
of all hostages being held by Hamas and
other groups that will help us address
the dire humanitarian crisis
in
Gaza we believe we're close we're not
there yet
unfortunately and this moment is one
where the security Council has a
critical role to
play by adopting the resolution before
us we can put pressure on Hamas to
accept the deal on the table colleagues
you don't need me to tell you that every
day without a deal meaning every day
without a ceasefire leads to more
needless suffering for more than 100
hostages including a one-year-old child
being held in cap captivity by Hamas and
other groups for innocent Palestinians
in Gaza who have been displaced who are
starving who desperately need peace for
Israelis who've continued to face
missile attacks from Hamas a terrorist
group that set this conflict into motion
on October 7th every day without a deal
means more needless suffering this
resolution will move us closer to
securing that deal and help us alleviate
that suffering and I urge all council
members to vote Yes to vote for a
resolution that at long last condemns
Hamas for horrific terrorist attacks and
sexual violence that makes clear that
all civilians Palestinians and Israelis
should be able to live without fear of
violence that demands the protection of
civilians in Gaza and stresses that a
major ground offensive in Rafa poses a
grave threat to civilians even as we
still work toward eliminating Hamas from
all parts of Gaza that calls on Israel
to eliminate all barriers and
restrictions to humanitarian Aid
especially as the threat of famine looms
large in Northern Gaza that condemns
calls to resettle Gaza and makes clear
that the Palestinian Authority should
have ultimate authority over Gaza and
that reiterates this council's support
for a two-state
solution this is a strong resolution
it's the byproduct of exhaustive
inclusive negotiations it reflects the
consensus of this Council
and it does more than just call for a
ceasefire it helps to make that make a
ceasefire
possible it would be a historic mistake
for the council to not adopt this text
and I again urge all council members to
vote yes thank you Mr
President I thank the representative of
the United States for their statement I
give the Flor to the representative of
Russian feder
ation Mr
President the United Nations security
Council has for a half a year 6 months
been unable to adopt a document with a
demand for a ceasefire in Gaza all of
the attempts time and again came up
against the resistance of the United
States who four times in Cold Blood cast
a veto in this chamber in this time we
have heard from us colleagues repeatedly
their
justifications either they were saying
that the achievement of a fire is
premature in so far as there is a need
to give space for so-called
counterterrorism efforts of Israel or
they demanded for the security Council
not to stand in the way of effective
diplomacy of Washington on the ground
that is a
quote or they called for
us to wait for the onset of Ramadan when
apparently an agreement would definitely
be reached for cease for an end to the
violence and now 6 months have elapsed
Gaza has virtually been wiped from the
earth and now the US Representative
without blinking has been asserting that
Washington has finally begun to
recognize the need for a
ceasefire this sluggish thought process
in Washington has caused
the lies has been come at the cost of
the lives of 32,000 peaceful
Palestinians 2ir of whom are women and
children and even now we have observed a
typical hypocritical spectacle when
wrapped up in a ceasefire the United
States have been trying to sell a
product to the membership of the
security Council and to the entire
International Community they've been
trying to sell something completely
different namely a diluted formulation
about a det about a definition and
determination of the imper ative for a
ceasefire this kind of philosophical
passages about moral
imperatives are seen in limited
quantities in the work of Emanuel
Kant however to save the lives of
peaceful CI Palestinian civilians this
is not enough and this is in no way what
is stipulated in the Mandate of the UN
Security Council the council which is
vested with a unique mechanism to demand
a ceasefire and we necessary to compel
compliance
therewith US Secretary of State an
Anthony blinkin during an official
interview in jida on the 20th of March
with the correspondent alhad stated and
I quote well in well in fact we actually
have a resolution that we put forward
right now that's before the UN Security
Council that does call for an immediate
ceasefire tied to the release of
hostages and we hope very much
that countries will support that end
quote however in the text of the US
draft which has been put to the vote
today there is no such call so what
turns out is that either the US
representative at the United Nations or
the US Secretary of State have been
deliberately misleading the
International Community distinguished
colleagues from the very onset it was
clear that the so-called negotiations
which are us colleagues have been
engaged in on this issue have been
focused gear merely to drag out the
time all of our comments all of our red
lines were Time and Time disregarded as
were the proposals of a number of other
delegations this was some kind of an
empty re rhetorical exercise rather than
normal work on a document the American
product is exceedingly politicized the
sole Purp purp of which is to help to uh
play into play to the voters to throw
them a bone in the form of some kind of
a mention of a ceasefire in Gaza and to
establish the US's political Ambitions
in the region through the establishment
of terrorist labels and to ensure the
impunity of Israel whose crimes in the
draft are not even assessed I wish to
draw attention to the following the US
draft contains an effective green light
for Israel to mount a military operation
in
Rafa at the very least the authors try
to make it to such that nothing would
prevent Western Jerusalem from
continuing their brutal cleansing of the
south of the Gaza Strip and what is
Washington actually trying to achieve we
have already stated that we will no
longer tolerate pointless resolutions
which do not contain a call for a
ceasefire which lead us to
Nowhere this draft should not pass with
the majority of the membership to send a
message about the in admissibility not
the paliative but the actual int of
Washington it would be very strange for
us to see that those members of the
Council of whom there are a majority who
understand this and who persuaded us of
the deficiencies in the US draft it
would be be surprised if they now lift
their hands voting in favor of
it ladies and gentlemen if you do this
you will cover yourselves in
disgrace consider once again how will
you look before the population in the
Middle East in front of your own
populations if you support this
hypocritical initiative which is
designed to disorient the International
Community and essentially to undermine
the authority of the council uh making
sure that it cannot have an impact on
the situation on the ground that this
Council will not be able to have an
impact of the situation on the ground to
ensure that it not get in the way of the
White House are you willing to play into
their hands when it comes to this
unsavory spectacle the Russian
Federation will not do this as a
permanent member of the UN Security
Council as one of the founders of the
United Nations we recognize the
historical Global responsibility we
shoulder for the maintenance of
International Peace and security we
cannot allow the security Council to
become an instrum instrument in the
advancement of Washington's destructive
policy in the Middle East if this
resolution is to be
adopted this would definitively close
the door when it comes to discussions
about the need for a ceasefire in
Gaza this would free the hands of Israel
and it would uh result in all of Gaza
and its entire population having to face
destruction Devastation or expulsion we
are not Guided by what is convenient for
Washington and sat satellites The
Satellites who rais their hands
following instructions from Washington
we do not follow this what we what
guides us is what is necessary for the
Palestinian people and what helps to
advance
peace we call upon the membership of the
security Council not to allow this to
occur to vote against the US
draft Mr president for the United
Nations security Council to ultimately
be in a position to deliver upon it
mandate for the M maintenance of
International Peace and security a
number of non-permanent members of the
security Council have drafted an
alternative draft resolution which
stipulates black on white the demand for
both a ceasefire and the unconditional
release of hostages this is a balanced
and a a political
document we see no reason for which the
membership of the security Council for
the members of the security Council not
to support this unless a ceasefire and
the release of hostages is not part of
their
plans this is an attempt to allow the
council to comply with the noble
functions that have been vested in it
and I call for you not to let this
opportunity slip away thank you for your
attention I thank the representative of
Russian Federation for their
statement I shall put the draft I shall
put the draft resolution to the vote now
now will those
in will those in favor of the draft
resolution contained in document
s224
239 please raise their
hand
yes those again uh those
againsts
abstention the result of the Voting is
as follows 11 votes in favor three votes
against one
[Music]
abstention the draft resolution has not
been adopted owning to the negative vote
of a permanent member of the
council I now I now give the floor to
those members of the council who wish to
make statements after the vote I give
the floor to the representative of the
United
States thank you again Mr
President today okay so we have been
watching there the UN Security Council
voting on the latest draft resolution by
the United States which spoke of the
imperative um the imperative need for a
ceasefire which has been vetoed by
Russia which means that it is not going
to go through let's listen to the US
ambassador to the United Nations Linda
Thomas Greenfield who's speaking
now and now Russia and China will give
you all sorts of explanations for his
obstruction
but whether or not it will admit it
there are two deeply deeply cynical
reasons behind its votes
first Russian China still could not
bring itself to condemn hamas's
terrorist attacks on October 7th can we
just pause on that for a
moment Russia and China refuses to
condemn Hamas for burning people alive
for gunning down innocent civilians at a
concert for raping women and girls for
taking hundreds of people hostage this
was the deadliest single attack on Jews
since the
Holocaust and a permanent member of this
Council can't even condemn it I'm sorry
it's it's really outrageous and it's
below the Dignity of this
body the second reason behind this veto
is not just cynical it's also
Petty Russia and China simply did not
want to vote for a resolution that was
pinned by the United States because it
would rather see us fail than to see
this Council succeed even after
inclusive consultations over weeks and
weeks even after negotiations and edits
produced a draft that received
overwhelming Council support and as you
saw today nearly every council member
voted to put the full weight of this
body behind the Diplomatic efforts to
secure an immediate and sustain ceas
fire as part of a deal that leads to the
release of all hostages that will allow
much more humanitarian Aid to get into
Gaza but once again Russia put politics
over prog o over progress
Russia who has carried out an unprovoked
war on its
neighbor has the audacity and the
hypocrisy to throw stones when it lives
in a glass house itself so let's be
honest for all the fiery rhetoric we all
know that Russia and China are not doing
anything diplomatically to advance a
lasting peace or to meaningfully
contribute to the humanitarian response
effort colleagues there is obviously
another resolution that some of you
would like to be considered but in its
current form that text fails to support
sensitive diplomacy in the region worse
it is it could actually give Hamas an
excuse to walk away from the deal on the
table all of us want to see this Council
speak out but we should not move forward
with any resolution that jeopardizes the
ongoing negotiations and these are not
just negotiations that are being carried
out by the United States others in the
region Qatar and Egypt are engaged on
these
negotiations so if that alternative
resolution comes up for a vote and does
not support the diplomacy happening on
the ground we may once again find this
Council deadlocked I truly hope that
that does not come about and so far our
apart the the United States will keep at
it we'll continue to work toward a deal
alongside Qatar and Egypt and we will
work with any council member that is
seriously interested in adopting a
resolution that will help make that deal
possible thank you Mr
President I thank the representative of
the United States for their statement